Hi! Thank you all for being here today.
I'm going to tell something about my research I did on using synthetic data for machine learning.
I'm Max.
Well, what is machine learning?
Basically machine learning is art of creating black boxes called neural networks.
You feed your black box samples together with the desired labels and you let it train.
After the training is done, if you're lucky, your black box learns to give the right labels to samples it hasn't seen before.
Let's walk through the creation of a simple neural network called a classifier.
It all starts with collecting data.
Let's say we want to create a classifier to classify flowers.
We take some pictures of daisies and some pictures of dandelions, and let the classifier train on them.
We then an image we haven't shown it yet and ask it to predict what the label is.
For example we show it this dandelion and it tells us it's a daisy.
Unfortunately that often happens.
In this case it's because the background was green and we gave the classifier a lot of images with green backgrounds that were daisies.
The solution to this problem is to collect way more data.
There is one problem however, photographers are very expensive.
So what people are doing right now is using rendered data to augment their datasets.
An example of how we could do this for our flower classifier is:
we take an image on the left, the image we want to classify
we extract the flower and we paste the flower on top of a different image that didn't have a flower in it.
That way the classifier is forced to learn that certain backgrounds are irrelevant
If you look up close at the resulting image however you can see that there are a lot of artifacts.
In this case the cutout artifacts are the grey border and the lack of shadow in the flower.
In real life most rendered datasets have artifacts like that.
These differences are known as a distribution gap between real and rendered images.
Training of neural networks on rendered datasets often doesn't work as well as you expect due to these differences.
Research I've worked on is trying to train a neural network to remove these differences from images and train on the dataset that's then created.
We do this by using a neural network called a GAN.
I won't go in detail on how it works but basically what it does is: you train it on a rendered dataset and on a real dataset
and it learns to transform images from the rendered dataset to images that look real.
With the trained GAN we transform a rendered dataset into a new dataset that should look the same as the real dataset.
We then train our new classifier on the combined fixed and real dataset.
Our hope is then that the classifier we trained now is better than the one we had before.
In our research we didn't use flowers as those are relatively computationally intensive.
We used handwritten digits from the MNIST set.
On the left you see images in that set, those are the real samples.
They were taken from people doing tests in the US.
On the right you see our rendered dataset.
We use a slightly different approach for the rendering, we used fonts to create these images.
Here you can see how we created the dataset, we used open source fonts
and transformed them into the dataset there, the font dataset, which has images that look like the 42 on the top right.
Again we train the GAN on the font dataset and on the real dataset
to train it to convert font images into images that look like handwritten digits.
We then use the GAN to transform the font digits into things that look like handwritten digits.
And again we train the classifier on both the MNIST data and the GAN dataset.
We did this for multiple amounts of MNIST data, we tried to use less and less real data to see if we could still get an accurate result.
These were some of the outputs of the GAN if we used very little real training data.
About 55 images, that means 5,5 examples on average per digit.
As you can see it really doesn't work that well.
For a 1 it generates an 8.
For the 4, 5 and 7 they all generate the same 9.
When we increase the amount of images it doesn't become that much better.
It still looks like it's not doing much.
If we increase it further however we can see that the results start to look like they might have been written by someone.
Once we use a lot of images it becomes very realistic.
We mentioned a gap between real and rendered datasets so we had to verify that our dataset does have a gap.
To do that we plotted the error of a classifer trained on only the font data, when tested against MNIST.
As you can see if we increase the amount of font images we train the classifier with, the error goes up.
Which means that it becomes a worse classifier.
This indicates that there actually is a gap between the font dataset and the real dataset which is what we expected.
We also wanted to verify wether the GAN actually helped.
To do that we plotted the error of multiple classifiers trained on different amounts of MNIST samples.
You can see the same font data on the top but flipped horizontally.
This is because we use less font samples if we use more MNIST samples.
We then add the error of the classifier trained on only the real data.
This is our baseline, as you can see it goes to one percent error if we use the full dataset.
We also plotted the performance of a classifier only trained on GAN data.
As you can see it's always worse than just using the original data and only sometimes better than using the font data.
If we train a classifier on the original dataset and the GAN dataset however, it quickly becomes way better than the original dataset.
So combined they are better than the individual parts.
This starts happening from about 385 images.
All in all the GAN really seems to help in this case.
We only plotted one combined classifier previously, so we wanted to check wether the improved result wasn't due to adding more data.
To verify that, we also tested original+font versus original.
As you can see it does improve slightly but not nearly as dramatic as the data with the GAN combined.
We mentioned the original+GAN started to become better around 385 images.
However this was the result we showed for that amount of images.
It really doesn't look like it's working but somehow the accuracy still improves.
Due to time limits we haven't been able to figure out what exactly causes that.
All in all, this works great on MNIST.
Even with very little training data
GANs seem very useful for inflating small datasets and reducing costs.
Thank you.